.TH get_memory_stats 3 $Date: 2003/12/04 18:59:17 $ i\-scream 
.SH NAME
get_memory_stats, get_swap_stats \- get VM statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <statgrab.h>
.fi
.sp 1
.PP
mem_stat_t *\fIget_memory_stats\fR(void);
.PP
swap_stat_t *\fIget_swap_stats\fR(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Memory statistics are accessed through the
get_memory_stats function. It returns a
pointer to a static mem_stat_t.
.PP
The get_swap_stats returns returns swap
statistics. It returns a pointer to a static
swap_stat_t.
.PP
On the FreeBSD operating system elevated privileges are required
to access the swap statistics. Making the program setgid kmem
should be sufficient. Programs running as root will not have this
problem.
.SH RETURN\ VALUES
The VM system calls can return a pointer to either a
mem_stat_t or a
swap_stat_t.
.PP
.nf

typedef struct{
        long long total;
        long long free;
        long long used;
        long long cache;
}mem_stat_t;
    
.fi
.TP 
total  
The total amount of memory in bytes.
.TP 
free  
The total free memory in bytes.
.TP 
used  
The total used memory in bytes.
.TP 
cache  
The amount of cache used in bytes.
.PP
.nf

typedef struct{
        long long total;
        long long used;
        long long free;
}swap_stat_t;
    
.fi
.TP 
total  
The total swap space in bytes.
.TP 
used  
The used swap in bytes.
.TP 
free  
The free swap in bytes.
.SH TODO
Add a function to hold open the file descriptor to the kernel
memory structures. Doing this would allow the elevated privileges
to be dropped early on.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
\fBstatgrab\fR(3)
.SH WEBSITE
http://www.i\-scream.org
