.TH statgrab 3 $Date: 2003/12/04 18:59:17 $ i\-scream 
.SH NAME
statgrab \- get system statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <statgrab.h>
.fi
.sp 1
.PP
int \fIstatgrab_init\fR(void);
.PP
cpu_percent_t *\fIcpu_percent_usage\fR(void);
.PP
cpu_states_t *\fIget_cpu_totals\fR(void);
.PP
cpu_states_t *\fIget_cpu_diff\fR(void);
.PP
diskio_stat_t *\fIget_diskio_stats\fR(int *\fIentries\fR);
.PP
diskio_stat_t *\fIget_diskio_stats_diff\fR(int *\fIentries\fR);
.PP
general_stat_t *\fIget_general_stats\fR(void);
.PP
load_stat_t *\fIget_load_stats\fR(void);
.PP
mem_stat_t *\fIget_memory_stats\fR(void);
.PP
swap_stat_t *\fIget_swap_stats\fR(void);
.PP
network_stat_t *\fIget_network_stats\fR(int *\fIentries\fR);
.PP
network_stat_t *\fIget_network_stats_diff\fR(int *\fIentries\fR);
.PP
page_stat_t *\fIget_page_stats\fR(void);
.PP
page_stat_t *\fIget_page_stats_diff\fR(void);
.PP
process_stat_t *\fIget_process_stats\fR(void);
.PP
user_stat_t *\fIget_user_stats\fR(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The statgrab library provides a cross platform interface to getting
system statistics. Each of the function calls returns a structure
containing statistics. See the manual page for each individual
function for more details on usage.
.PP
statgrab_init(void) should be the first
function you call before you start to use libstatgrab. This
function on *bsd systems opens up the kernel structures and
leaves them open for future use. Because of this, any special
privileges the program has (e.g. setgid kmem) can be dropped
after this call, and all the libstatgrab calls should continue to
work.
.PP
statgrab_init returns 0 on success, and
non\-zero on failure.
.PP
The library was originally written to support the i\-scream central
monitoring system, but has since become a standalone package. It
has been ported to work on Linux, FreeBSD, and Solaris.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
\fBcpu_percent_usage\fR(3)
\fBget_diskio_stats\fR(3)
\fBget_general_stats\fR(3)
\fBget_load_stats\fR(3)
\fBget_memory_stats\fR(3)
\fBget_network_stats\fR(3)
\fBget_page_stats\fR(3)
\fBget_process_stats\fR(3)
\fBget_user_stats\fR(3)
.SH WEBSITE
http://www.i\-scream.org
