.TH cpu_percent_usage 3 $Date: 2003/12/04 18:59:17 $ i\-scream 
.SH NAME
cpu_percent_usage, get_cpu_totals, get_cpu_diff \- get cpu usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <statgrab.h>
.fi
.sp 1
.PP
cpu_percent_t *\fIcpu_percent_usage\fR(void);
.PP
cpu_states_t *\fIget_cpu_totals\fR(void);
.PP
cpu_states_t *\fIget_cpu_diff\fR(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
get_cpu_totals() and
get_cpu_diff() both return static pointers
of type cpu_states_t.
get_cpu_totals() returns the total amount of
"ticks" the operating system has spent in each of the different
states. get_cpu_diff() returns the
difference in "ticks" for each of the states since last time
get_cpu_diff() or
get_cpu_totals() was called. If it has never
been called, it will return the result of
get_cpu_totals().
.PP
The value stored (the "ticks") will vary between operating
systems. For example Solaris has a total of 100 per second,
while Linux has substantially more. Also, different operating
systems store different information \- you won't find nice cpu on
Solaris for example.
.PP
Because of this, you will ideally always want to work on a scale
against the total, or in percentages.
.PP
cpu_percent_usage() returns a pointer to a
static cpu_percent_t. The function
calls get_cpu_diff() and changes the values
into percentages. If it has never been called before (and nor has
get_cpu_totals() or
get_cpu_diff()), the returned percentages
will be the systems total ever since its uptime. (Unless the
counters have cycled)
.SH RETURN\ VALUES
There are two structures returned by the CPU statistics
functions.
.PP
.nf

typedef struct{
        long long user;
        long long kernel;
        long long idle;
        long long iowait;
        long long swap;
        long long nice;
        long long total;
        time_t systime;
}cpu_states_t;
    
.fi
.PP
.nf

typedef struct{
        float user;
        float kernel;
        float idle;
        float iowait;
        float swap;
        float nice;
        time_t time_taken;
}cpu_percent_t;
    
.fi
.TP 
user  kernel  idle  iowait  swap  nice  
The different CPU states.
.TP 
systime  time_taken  
The time taken in seconds since the last call of the
function, or the system time.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
\fBstatgrab\fR(3)
.SH WEBSITE
http://www.i\-scream.org
